Prince, in our previous video,
we created some patterns with the help of some special characters like space tab,
dot.me for any character matching.
Then star, star means 0 or more characters for your preceding letter.
Then slash question mark,
none or one matching.
Then slash plus one or more matching.
Then finally we have seen slash also means to
escape your special purpose of all these characters.
Right? Now the thing is,
you have so many special characters.
Now we discuss only some of them.
Now here we are going to discuss two more special characters on these are very,
very important in your realtime.
They are like carrot symbol.
So what is the use of carrot and dollar symbol?
Right?
See, basically carriage is used to match any word at this starting off your given line.
Let's say I have a file called in this way.
Right?
Now I will do one thing.
Let me modify this file.
I'm going to write something like put this there.
This line.
No way.
Suppose I am going to such a line which consists of put.
I want to print the, the lines which are having put, right?
Let me do this first.
So how many lines you are getting?
Two lines.
But what I am doing is I want to get the line
which are having put only at the starting of your line.
Now see the output what you are getting.
Put word is there in two lines,
but in Firstly, anyhow, somewhere in secondary heart very first.
Now carrot means whatever the worry or searching.
If that word is there at very first in a given line,
then only that line will print.
I mean, you are searching for the lines which are having a word or the starting.
Not only would worry, you can go with any word.
Right? Now, same way.
Let's say firstly, if you have your final, okay,
now I'm going to such a line which consists of suppose pot.
I'm going to print the, the lines which are having pot work.
Let me print them first.
So you have two places pot that we are getting two lines.
Now.
I want to get the lines which are having pot word at the ending in the given line, right?
To get the lines which are having pot word at the end, right?
You have to take your searching board at the end.
You have to take dollar,
then see the output, what you are getting.
You are getting the line which is having pot at the end.
So that is the usage of dollar.
If you are looking for some word, right?
You're, you're looking for some lines which are having pot word,
especially at the end,
then you have to use pot.
You are searching what then dollar symbol.
Right?
Now, fine.
Now said CA.
So let me show you your file first.
So yeah, let me open this file.
So I want to create some empty lines, man.
Because my intention is to find out in empty lines.
Let me create, suppose some 34 empty lines.
Now see that as of now,
whatever the file you are having, this is the file.
Now my requirement is I want to print the lines which are empty.
So there is a shortcut like start with nothing and nothing.
That is a meaning with the symbol.
Now if you observe the output C,
this many gaps you are getting means that many empty lines in your file.
Now generally new real time, right,
while working with some files,
if there are any empty lines, you want to delete them.
So if you want to delete any line, you know,
what is the syntax for that based on searching Word?
Or suppose if I want build first line,
I have to use this syntax right?
Then it will delete your first line.
But I want to delete the lines which are empty, which are empty.
So delete these lines.
Now see the output, what you are getting,
you are getting output without any empty lines.
If you want to delete permanently the empty lines in your original file or source file,
just use eye for an eye option.
Right?
Now, open your file and see the content.
What is there? Now you don't have any empty lines.
That is the very, very important one in your real time.
Deleting empty lines permanently.
These syntax simply, this is the meaning to find out empty lines.
So you are searching for empty lines and that lens you are deleting.
So I, if I means permanently or deleting, right?
So that is the usage of your carrot and
dollar symbol and the combination of keratin dollar.
No. Let say I will do something.
I'm going to add some thin somewhere.
No, let me print the lines which are having carrot symbol.
Suppose if I want to do that,
what I can do hyphen n,
carrot, printed the lines which are having carrot symbol, but see what you are getting.
You are getting all the lengths.
So basically the purpose of Kennedy's whatever,
those searching body, how that word should be there at the starting,
you don't have anything, right?
That's why all lines are matching.
But if you want to match it with the carrier itself,
carries a special character.
So you need to remove that special purpose by using escape symbol.
Now see the output.
The same way.
I wanted to get the lines which are having only dollar symbol,
not for ending with something,
only the lines which are having dollar.
So dollar purposes.
Such something at the end of your line.
I mean, such the lines which are having some Butler what at the end.
But I don't want to go in that way.
I don't want to use my special purpose of character.
I want to just match like a equals B equals to B. I want to match like that.
Then you have to remove your special-purpose off
your dollar by placing your escape symbol.
That's it.
Ok, so it's already we discussed about in our previous video,
escape symbols, same purpose we are using here, right?
Ok.
We'll see some more special characters to create
your patrons and to use in regular expressions of your set command in later videos.
Ok, thank you for watching this video.